We're so happy to have you join us again here on J.W. Broadcasting. In the
next hour we'll talk about how to become a better teacher of God's Word. And we
also joined the land in Isaac for some candid talk about the peer pressure
they faced in high school. We'll see an interview with Maria Kaloyanov, who
smuggled hundreds of pieces of Bible literature into communist Europe during
the 1960s. What motivated this young mother to risk imprisonment again and
again? And we'll enjoy a beautiful new music video that highlights how much
Jehovah appreciates the quality of our sacrifices even if we're limited and what
we can do. This is the August 2023 edition of J.W. Broadcasting. How important
is the use of illustrations? Are they simply fluff in our teaching? One
definition of the English word fluff is this, something essentially trivial
and lacking importance or solid worth. Our illustrations trivial and of little
worth. Please follow along on screen as I read our theme scripture, Matthew 1334.
All these things Jesus spoke to the crowds by illustrations. Indeed, without an
illustration, he would not speak to them. We often call Jesus the great teacher.
Illustrations were essential to fully grasp what was being taught. Now we
won't be spending a lot of time on the do's and don'ts of using illustrations.
Insight on the scriptures has a whole topic on illustrations and the apply
yourself to reading and teaching brochure has some helpful suggestions in lesson
eight. Let me remind you also of a talk that Brother
Splain of the governing body gave at the 2020 regional convention. The title was
improve your skills illustrating key points. It had some very practical
suggestions which I won't be repeating here. So perhaps you'll want to review
Brother Splain's talk in an upcoming family worship. At times the Bible actually
identifies Jesus expression as an illustration. Most of the time it does not. It
was just part of the way he spoke naturally. Illustrations flowed from him.
Well, how did he come up with them so readily? Jesus was observant of what was
happening around him. We too can be observant. This will help to train us to
think in illustrations. The bread and the wine used at the memorial of Christ
death beautifully represented Jesus' perfect body and blood that would be
given in behalf of sinful mankind. But we can learn something about our use of
illustrations by considering the circumstances of the Lord's evening meal.
Think about it. From years of attending Jesus knew what was going to be on the
Passover table that night. So he could have thought in advance of using those
emblems in that way. We don't know for sure. But what a simple logical and
indelible impression it made that night and continues to make on millions of
us some 2,000 years later. If we're going to give a talk or demonstration at
one of our meetings, we already know the topic. So we have the luxury of
thinking of an illustration in advance. But what if we're teaching a Bible
student and he asks us an unexpected question? At that moment you're likely
mentally consider your student, what you know about his work, his hobbies, or just
his daily life experiences, and an illustration may come to your mind on the
spur of the moment. Well, let's see how that latter process, an unexpected
situation, was faced by Jesus. In this case, we can understand his thought process
and coming up with masterful illustrations. In John chapter 4, he's the
count about the Samaritan woman at the well. John 434, Jesus used the
illustration of food. He said there, my food is to do the will of him who sent
me and to finish his work. That's a simple, effective illustration. Why might he
have used the generic expression food instead of something more specific like
my wine or my bread is to do the will of him who sent me? Well, let's look at
the context. Interestingly, in quick succession, Jesus used two different
illustrations and in both cases, it seems from the context that he came up with
these based on what was happening at the time. John 4.7 says, a woman of
Samaria came to draw water. Jesus said to her, give me a drink. Well, that set up
number one for an illustration about water. Verse 8 says, for his disciples had
gone off into the city to buy food. That set up number two for an illustration
about food. Now, Jesus didn't orchestrate all of this in advance. It was just
circumstantial that Jesus asked a woman who approached with a water jar to give
him a drink. But Jesus instantly thought and used the subject of water as an
illustration. Verse 10 says, if you had known of the free gift of God and who it is
who says to you, give me a drink, you would have asked him and he would have given
you living water. The illustration was spontaneous. It effectively led to a
fine witness about Jesus. Now, illustration number two, look at verse 27. Jesus
is still talking to the woman when the disciples returned from the city. I do
remember that verse 8 said that the disciples had gone into the city to buy
food. So they come back and they have some food for Jesus. Going to verse 28, the
woman leaves, notice the disciples now say to Jesus, which is a set up for
illustration number two. Not water, but food now becomes the topic of conversation.
Verse 31. Meanwhile, the disciples were urging him, rabbi, eat. The word eat
caused Jesus to think of the now famous illustration that we quote regularly.
Verse 32, but he said to them, I have food to eat that you do not know about. Well,
the disciples are puzzled. Verse 33. So the disciples said to one another, no one
brought him anything to eat, did he? Jesus picking up on the topic at hand said
to them, my food is to do the will of him who sent me and finished his work.
Now, obviously Jesus did not choreograph all this in advance. But based on the
circumstances at hand, he came up with illustrations that worked well in what
way? Well, what's the point of similarity between God's will and food? Eating
good food is enjoyable. It's satisfying. The point, Jesus enjoyed doing God's
will. It was satisfying to him like eating a tasty meal. Another point of
similarity. Food invigorates a person. Jesus was invigorated by that
conversation with a Samaritan woman. I'll glance back up at verses three through
six. Says Jesus had left Judea on foot. Look at verse six. Now, Jesus tired
out as he was from the journey was sitting at the well. It was about the six
hour. However, after witnessing to the woman at the well, Jesus is invigorated. He
even alluded to the idea that the experience was more energizing than
literal food. What if we learned thus far from the process? If you know beforehand,
what will be discussed, that gives you the opportunity to think of an appropriate
illustration in advance. If something comes up unexpectedly, often you can use
what you've observed around you or what you already know to generate an
effective illustration. You might be thinking, I'm not really creative. It takes a
while for me to think of an illustration, even when I know in advance that I
haven't assignment at the meeting. On the spot illustration, it's probably not
going to happen for me with the way my brain works or doesn't work. Is there a way
to train the brain to think in illustration mode? Yes. How? One way is by
observing creation or man-made inventions, even when you don't have a talk to
give, even when your children are not with you. Think about what you observe and
reason out how it could be applied as a teaching lesson in the future. Write it
down if you need to so as to remember it. One father told me that even when his
children were not with him, he would look at creation and come up with a line of
reasoning that might be helpful in the future. And he gave an example. He observed
two kittens playing together. He reasoned. Do those kittens look happy? Yes. If
Jehovah knows what it takes to make two kittens happy, do you think he knows what
it would take to make you happy? Well obviously a child would agree. So if Jehovah
knows what it would take to make you happy, what should you do if Jehovah says to
do something a certain way? Profound dad, do it Jehovah's way if you want to be
happy. Now the beautiful reality, the golden moment, was when he saw one of his
sons watching two squirrels and a tree chasing each other. He used the squirrels
as his illustration, along with the prepared line of reasoning. Now his son
still remembers that point many decades later. Jesus' brain thought
creatively when using illustrations. For another example, please turn with me to
John 142. Jesus changed Simon's name on the spot. John 142. And he and
group led him Simon to Jesus. When Jesus looked at him, he said, you are Simon the
son of John. You will be called Seifas, which is translated Peter. Now why did
Jesus change his name to Seifas or Peter? It actually seems to be creative
thinking. The Greek word for Peter is Petros, not Petra. Petra means rock mass
and that applies to Jesus, the cornerstone, the head of the Christian
congregation. However, Petros means a piece of rock. What a beautiful
description of Peter. At times, Peter didn't seem to be dependable, but Jesus saw
good qualities in him and gave him the name Peter, Petros, piece of rock. In
effect, Jesus was saying that he would become as stable as a rock, and that's
precisely what transpired. What a great word picture or illustration by Jesus. At
Revelation 11, under inspiration to John, Jehovah said that that book of the
Bible was a revelation by Jesus Christ, which God gave to him. The insight book
says, the book of Revelation concludes the Holy Scriptures with one of the most
outstanding concentrations of illustrations found in the entire Bible. You
recall our theme is Matthew 1334. Without an illustration, he would not speak to
them. As another example, Jesus gave his famous sermon on the mountain. In Matthew
chapter 7, the last chapter of that sermon, he used at least 10 different
illustrations. Yes, without an illustration, he would not speak to them. Matthew
chapter 728 sums up the sermon on the mountain, saying, when Jesus finished
these sayings, the effect was that the crowds were astounded at his way of
teaching. First Peter 221 says that Jesus left a model for us to follow his steps
closely. That includes his art of teaching, which incorporated extensive use of
illustrations. They were pithy and to the point. May each of us train ourselves to
think that way and strive to improve our teaching skills by means of
illustrations. Jesus was able to reach hearts, not only by means of his teaching
skills, but also because of his outstanding qualities. Think of his empathy, his
compassion, and fellow feeling just drew people to him like a magnet. What role
can our empathy and fellow feeling play as we preach to others in this
loveless world? Take a look at the following dramatization.
Okay, and everything, Bagel, with cream cheese and a large lady, 850. Oh, I think I've
forgot my pores. Not my problem. Come on, I'm young this time. I've been waiting
forever. And yet still not my problem. Are you serious? I can mean you demand
you have to work. Next customer. Sorry, how much was her order? 850. Oh, I've got it.
And could you add a regular coffee with cream? Fine, 12 even. I just want to help. Thank
you. Of course. How can I get you money to you? Yeah, don't worry about it. Okay, thank
you. But if you'd like a little something encouraging to read on your way to work,
you might enjoy this. I don't believe in God. May I ask why? I just don't. Thanks again.
You're very sweet. How many years in the camp? 11. Will anyone else in your family be
requesting resettlement? No. Why? They are all dead. I need a copy of your identity
card. Never underestimate the power of empathy. Even the smallest gesture of kindness
on our part can lead to someone opening their heart to the truth. The video also taught
as something else. The ministry in all of its forms can have a cumulative effect on
a person's heart, softening it over time to accept the Kingdom message. Of course,
we have empathy not only for those in the field, but also for our own brothers and sisters.
And that includes our young ones. Day after day, they have to deal with pure pressure at
school and its intense. Take her from Milan and Isaac. They share their stories in this
episode of my teen life. I went to a vocational school where I was able to fast track learning
a trade. Unexpectedly, I finished at the top of my class. After that, my teachers and
my classmates started to expect a lot more from me. They were saying, you're doing so
well. You represent the school. You will have to work hard. You'll do great things. You'll
go far. They were constantly putting pressure on me to go for higher education and to go
to university. There was this girl in high school who was my age. She was very friendly.
She always paid attention to me. She was a nice person. I also thought she was cute. My
classmates were like, go talk to her. Or, hey, Isaac, do you know that she likes you?
And so I wasn't sure what to do. Of course, when I chose to go to that school, higher education
wasn't the reason. I wanted to fast track getting a trade and then starting a job so that
I could earn my income. That's what I thought. It was a really difficult time for me.
I remember praying to Jehovah in tears for hours. I didn't ask for advice. Didn't talk
to friends or people I trusted about it, not even my parents. And little by little, I
started to give into that pressure that I got because of this girl. In the end, we started
to flirt with each other. We chatted and sent each other messages. When I prayed to
Jehovah, I didn't feel completely comfortable. I thought, if I'm not doing what Jehovah is
asking of me, if I'm not behaving how Jehovah expects me to behave, then how can I expect
him to listen to my prayers or even consider them? I family never told me to go or not to
go to university, but they reminded me of Jehovah's thinking. My dad read Proverbs 27 verse 11
to me. What I was doing was a barrier between me and Jehovah. He helped me see that the
decisions I make as a teenager affect Jehovah. At that time, there were many videos, articles
and publications about this topic, reading experiences of those who went through similar
things, doing personal study on the subject, and talking with spiritually mature brothers
while in the ministry was very helpful for me. Something that my parents did that helped
me a lot was that they used the book Young People Ask in our Family Study. And there's
a chapter that talks about peer pressure. Afterward, I was able to cope. What helped me the
most was something I heard at a circuit assembly. The speaker said in his talk, yes, our young
people have a lot of challenges right now. And when it comes to higher education, maybe their
classmates and teachers are pressuring them, but you young people, it felt like he spoke
to me personally. Your teacher or classmate might not even be part of your life in the future,
but if you want Jehovah always to be in your life, then you need to make your decisions accordingly.
It was like a light went on in my head. Now I was sure about what I needed to do.
I had to speak to her. One day I prayed to Jehovah and got up the courage. I told her that it couldn't
continue with us. Of course, explaining that to my classmates and to my teachers was a little hard.
I mean, it was difficult for them to understand. Sure, I explained it, but they said, why would you do
that? For whoever is in the same situation that I was in, the best thing to do is to talk to someone
you trust. Tell them how you feel and ask for help. Our creator, Jehovah, is the one who thinks
about me and loves me most. He hasn't deprived me of anything good. He always helps us and never
leaves us. I am so grateful to Jehovah. Delan and Isaac both admitted that the pressure they faced
was almost too much, almost got the best of them. What helped them turn the corner?
Isaac said it was reaching out and getting help. If you're facing similar pressures in school,
don't keep it to yourself. Talk to someone you trust. That can open the door to getting just
to help you need. Now we'd like to share something special with you. A recent discovery that has
rewritten a part of our Theocratic history. Enjoy the following story more than 80 years in the making.
Jehovah's Witnesses love the Bible. Long before taking on the monumental task of Bible translation,
they acquired licenses to print already existing translations of the Bible.
And then in the 1950s, the Watchtower Bible and Trek Society printed the first Bible ever to be
translated by Jehovah's Witnesses, the New World translation of the Holy Scriptures. At least,
we thought it was the first Bible ever to be translated by Jehovah's Witnesses.
Well, in the fall of 2017, the World Headquarters Museum Department received a Bible donated by
a brother in Germany. A company in the Bible was letter-referring to a rare Bible printed in
1934 at MacBook, the location of the Watchtower Bible and Trek Society's Germany branch and printer
at that time. Little was known about this Bible. And to those who didn't know of it, it was
thought of as something unapproved by the then president of the Society, Jeve Rutherford.
By 1934, Adolf Hitler's campaign against Jehovah's Witnesses was well underway.
Our religious activities were banned, 65 tons of literature had been seized and burned
by Nazi authorities, and the branch office and printer at MacBook had already been confiscated
and released several times. And this may explain why the MacBook Bible doesn't have a typical
publisher's page listing of who published it, who translated when and where it was printed.
But on the bottom of one of the last pages, there is just one line in small letters and in
reads printed, Watchtower Bible and Trek Society MacBook. Interestingly, on September 13, 1934,
the Ministry of the Interior of the German Government granted permission for the MacBook Office
to resume the printing and distribution of bubbles. However, everybody knew that the facilities
could be shut down again, perhaps permanently at any time. What really could be accomplished
in the limited time they had? The MacBook Office informed Rutherford that they had
possession of a new testament manuscript ready for printing, and additionally a translation
of the old testament was nearly complete. In October 1934, Rutherford approved the printing of
100,000 copies, but time was running out. For the Rutherford received the following
letter dated August 6, 1935, and it says, In the afternoon of July 10, a number of officials
of the secret police of Berlin and MacBook appeared and sealed the factory, rooms and offices
at MacBook, closed all factory rooms, attached the property and money of the society.
Several thousand bubbles were just being bound and the rest is printed.
Sadly, only a small number of those bubbles actually made it out of the printer.
In November 2017, after a careful surge, we were able to obtain three copies of the MacBook
Bible. Little did we know what a treasured place in our organization's history of Bible translation
and printing this Bible deserves. It's not a mere compilation of existing translations,
but a fresher, a unique translation of the Bible. Jehovah's name is used extensively in the
text of the Hebrew scriptures, as well as in footnotes of the Christian Greek scriptures.
The MacBook Bible was also cited in German language editions of the Watchtower,
and nearly a century later, the text can still be easily understood by the German reader.
This Bible translation truly has a remarkable story. Its print run was small
by normal Bible printing standards and its distribution was even smaller,
and although it was produced in record time and under highly dangerous circumstances,
it storyily forgotten for decades until it was rediscovered.
The MacBook Bible is the first non-bible to be translated and published by Jehovah's Witnesses,
predating the new world translation of the Holy Scriptures. It was able to survive in a time
of Nazi government opposition, and is now part of our Bible museum at Warwick.
This Bible truly is a testimony to the words we find in Isaiah 40 verse 8,
but Jehovah's Word bliped eviction.
Not even the thread of Nazi oppression stopped our brothers in Germany from doing what they
could to make the Bible more available. Why not? Because as Jehovah's Witnesses,
we love the Bible and love teaching others about it.
But what does it take to be a good teacher of God's Word?
In a morning worship program, Brother Jeffrey Jackson,
discussed what we can learn from the Apostle Paul and how to reach the heart.
How would you define a good teacher? That's an interesting question, isn't it?
For many of us, perhaps we might answer by saying what we think a good speaker is like.
We might say the brother uses many illustrations in his talk or he was able to highlight a
scripture that I've read many times and yet for the first time I've seen something interesting
in that that I've never seen before. Or perhaps we might say that he was able to keep my interest
right through the 60 minutes. Well, there are all sorts of different ways we could say that
someone is a good teacher. Of course, the best compliment someone could receive is if they're
told that their teaching is similar to that of Jesus Christ because we know he said a wonderful
example for all of us. But as we're thinking about the qualifications for someone to be a good
teacher, let's turn our attention to the words of the Apostle Paul. And if you turn with me please
to 1 Thessalonians chapter 2 and verses 7 and 8. And here we see in addition to some of the
matters that we just discussed, other aspects or other qualities that I required for someone really
to be an effective teacher. So as 1 Thessalonians 2, 7 and 8. On the contrary, we became gentle
in your midst as when a nursing mother tenderly cares for her own children. So having tender affection
for you, we were determined to impart to you not only the good news of God, but also our very
selves. You notice some of the qualities or attributes here that the Apostle Paul mentions
as being very important with regard to our teaching. In verse 8, it mentions tender affection.
So love is very much connected with someone having the ability to be a good teacher.
In fact, to reach the heart of the student, we have to display love as well, don't we?
Without reaching the heart of the student, if we're trying to teach, it's like enjoying a meal
in a dream. There really is no benefit at all. So if we teach but don't reach the heart of the
student, then it really is a very little value to the student. Then looking on, notice it says Paul
was determined to impart not just the message of the good news, but his very self. In other words,
he put his whole heart into teaching others. Let's look up at verse 7 and I feel quite confident
in saying that probably none of us would have listed this quality as being essential for a good
teacher. How does he start? We became gentle in your midst. Now, honestly, that probably isn't the
first quality that would come to your mind with regard to a teacher. But what's meant by this
expression to be gentle? Well, one Bible scholar made this comment. He said this word that's
translated gentle was frequently used by Greek writers as characterizing a nurse with
trying children or a teacher with refractory scholars. Now, I had to look up the word refractory
and add it to my vocabulary. It means basically difficult to control, resisting authority,
unmanageable, unresponsive. Well, do we see an interesting thought here? This gentleness
has a firmness and stability about it that isn't rocked or shaken easily by the negative
response of the one that's being taught. Isn't that an interesting quality? And no doubt, we've
all tried to display that perhaps as we're trying to teach someone something about the scriptures
and we come across the thought that this person doesn't really accept it. We state the fact,
we show our scripture, but still they may have a problem. Well, how do we react? You see, if we
were to demand that they accept what we say because we said it or because the scriptures said,
without reasoning with that person, then really we don't have that gentleness that the apostle Paul
is referring to here. So that's the ability under pressure to in a lovingly way, in loving way
convince someone of something that perhaps they're not so responsive to. Doesn't that open
our minds to another aspect of what is involved with good teaching? Now, by contrast, if we look
back at 1 Thessalonians chapter 2, we'll see that the apostle Paul, in verses 5 and 6,
gives us a contrast about the type of things that we wouldn't want to do as a teacher.
Let's read that in verse 5 and 6. In fact, you know that we never use flattering speech
or put on any false front with greedy motives. God is witness. Nor have we been seeking glory from
men, either from you or from others, but we could be an expensive burden as apostles of Christ.
So what are these negative things that we certainly would want to avoid if we want to be an
effective teacher? We'll notice that first one, flattering speech. Now, this reminds us of another
scripture. Let's turn across to Proverbs chapter 28 and verse 23. And this is a good reminder for all
of us. It says, whoever reproves a man, you know, or corrects his thinking, will afterward find
more favor, favor than someone who flatters with his tongue. Do we see the point that's being made there
that flattery is not really an effective way for us to gain someone's confidence, but rather
honestly correcting the thinking of someone else. So with our Bible students or whatever level of
teaching that we're doing, we need to remember the part of the process of teaching involves
giving counsel or direction and correcting wrong viewpoints. For us not to do that in a loving way
really shows that we don't love the person properly because we don't really want them to change
their wrong thinking. So avoiding flattering speech is very important. Going back to first of
us, this alone in chapter 2, what's the second point that Paul mentions? A false front with greedy
motives. So a false front pretending to be someone that you're not. So none of us would ever want to
put across a self-righteous viewpoint to try and convince others that we are holier than they are.
But as it says here, not to have that false front. And then mentions greedy motives. You see
there is a marginal reference that takes us across to Acts chapter 20 verse 33.
There the Apostle Paul says, I have desired no man's silver or gold or clothing.
So certainly as a teacher of the good news, we wouldn't want to expect some benefits or something
that we've come back to us by means of our teaching. There the Apostle Paul sets a good standard
for us. And then in verse 6, he said he wasn't seeking the glory of men or as one translation says
insisting on our own dignity. So it could be that if we're a teacher, we may feel that we
deserve a certain measure of respect. Yes, our position is a little higher than the student.
Now if we really feel that way deep inside, that's going to affect as our attitude with regard to
being gentle, aren't it? Because if someone questions what we say or if it looks like they're not
dignifying us in a proper manner, then we will lose that firm gentleness that helps correct
the thinking of others. Well, when we think about all these various attributes and qualities that
are needed for us to be a good teacher, perhaps we might feel that there's a lot we can work on.
I'm sure I feel that way as well. It's a continual battle, isn't it for us to continue to try and
be effective teachers? But one word of encouragement we gained from the book of Philippians as a final
description. Philippians chapter 2 and verse 13, for God is the one who for the sake of his good
pleasure energizes you, giving you both notice the desire. Yes, so the desire for us to impart the
truth in a loving manner to others and then also the power to act. So as we consider our teaching
abilities, don't just think of techniques, but always remember, when we're a good teacher we need to
be gentle in the midst of others and help them in a loving way to correct wrong thoughts.
Like Jesus, Paul put his whole heart into his teaching. His concern for others moved him to share
the good news with as many as possible. In modern times, many have shown that same spirit, moving
them to preach even in the face of opposition. One of those sisters is Maria Kalunianov.
So my mother was born in the country of Bulgaria in 1922 and in the early 50s, my family emigrated
from Germany to the United States. We settled in New York City and it was there that my mother
learned the truth. That's the first time I opened a Bible. I ended up in Revelation chapter 21,
but what hit me was the point that they will not be sickness, sorrow, and death.
Anymore.
Anyone that comes into the truth wants to share that with their family.
I had the desire to tell them the truth how they can get free from
oppression and sickness and death. So she very much saw the deed and desired to have literature
in the Bulgarian language. She was able to ask the brothers in Brooklyn, specifically offering
could she translate some literature in Bulgaria? The brothers approved her to do that, starting out
with some of the tracks. So Bulgaria was behind the Iron Curtain, a communist country,
literature about God and the Bible is not acceptable and banned.
And so you can't just mail it. So as literature became available, people have to take it in.
My family was one of those families that volunteered to do that.
We traveled into Bulgaria by train. We have a lot of luggage because every time we will go to
Bulgaria we stay two and a half months. That was the summer vacation.
In that luggage in various places, we put literature.
Traveling into a country with banned literature is not without its problems or dangers.
They knew that we had some literature and that was the track.
My mother realized that we were going to be searched. We had the ability then
to take the literature out of each luggage that we had hidden it and to put it into one small
briefcase. And what we couldn't as unfolded tracks, we put around our arm with our overcoats
over it. I was only worried about how I can hide that literature so he cannot find it.
Because if he will find it, then really there are consequences.
So as the guards would search through the luggage, they rifle through it. They don't straighten
anything out. So my mother quickly thought and asked them, can I now go over there and straighten
out what you've messed up? And they said, okay. And I took my tracks which I had around my hand
and I put it in the already checked bag over there. One of the guards gets to the point that it's
my little briefcase. He says, this is so small, nothing could be in here and he just takes it
over there. The man who was looking up was getting very nervous because he knew we had something
but he was not able to find it. So in one trip years later, my mother was on her own.
The officials at the border of Bulgaria found the literature. They arrested her. They put her in
prison. They interrogated her for two weeks or more every day. And in time, the Bulgarian government
had changed their mind and had decided that as a foreign national, they would just expel her from
the country. To this day, my mother continues her spiritual routine of worshiping Jehovah,
being at the meetings, preparing for the meetings, reading her Bible, and zealously sharing
the truth with others. It helps me practically every minute in my life. And I want to use my last
energy to make his will know. Once Mr. Kalunianoff heard the Bible's message, she just had to share it
with those in her home country. As she's gotten older, her circumstances have changed,
but not her determination. She still wants to do whatever she can, using her last energy as she
put it to make God's will known. Do you have faithful ones like Mr. Kalunianoff in your congregation?
Keep them in mind as you enjoy this month's music video. It's called Two Small Coins.
What a beautiful reassurance that no matter what our limitations may be, our gifts have great
value in Jehovah's eyes. For this month's video postcard, let's travel to a land of incredible
scenic beauty, New Zealand. New Zealand has made up primarily of two main islands, about 1,600
kilometers or more than 1,000 miles southeast of Australia. On those islands, you'll find snow-capped
mountain ranges, crystal clear lakes, miles of beaches, and a sweeping coastline with many
harbours and fjords. It's also an area of dramatic geothermal activity, with active volcanoes,
geysers, bubbling mud pools, and one of the largest hot springs in the world, the fittingly
named frying pan lake. Residents of New Zealand are often nicknamed Kiwis, a nod to one of the
country's most unique indigenous birds, the long-build and flightless Kiwi. The good news first
reached New Zealand in the late 1890s, when one local reader of the watchtower publications
started preaching on his own. A few years later, coal porters from Australia and the United States
arrived, and the good news began to spread. The early witnesses in New Zealand were intrepid
preachers, crossing rugged terrain on foot, horseback, and bicycle to reach remote towns.
One New Zealander, who became a zealous preacher in those early days, was William Berry,
who read the six volumes of studies in the scriptures in 1909, and immediately recognized he
had found the truth. He diligently taught the truth to his children, and in 1975, his son Lloyd Berry
became a member of the governing body. The truth is also spread quickly among the Maori,
the indigenous people of New Zealand. The first Maori language convention was held in 1928.
Today, we have many Maori brothers and sisters who enjoy sharing their rich culture with others.
Altogether, there are more than 15,000 publishers in New Zealand, preaching in 18 different languages,
including New Zealand Sign Language. Here on the south island is the seaside town of Picton,
and home for the Picton congregation. With a busy waterfront and ferry terminal,
Picton welcomes many tourist and international workers, so there are plenty of opportunities
for public witnessing. To reach those living in homes around the many bays of Picton,
the preaching work involves using boats owned by brothers. The 39 publishers and pioneers
in the Picton congregation send their love and greetings. From the world headquarters of
Jehovah's Witnesses, this is, he has this is J.W. Broadcasting.